# 1.x -> 2.x Migration Guide
2.x Was a rewrite of various parts of Naff, and as such, there are a few breaking changes. This guide will help you migrate your code from 1.x to 2.x.

Please note; there are other additions to 2.x, but they are not breaking changes, and as such, are not covered in this guide.

## Misc.
- All `edit` methods are now keyword arguments only.
  - The exception is `content` on message edits, which is positional.
- `context.interaciton_id` is now an `int` instead of a `str`.

## Selects
To simplify SelectMenus, NAFF made some changes to how SelectMenus are used.
- Options can now be and *reasonable* type, be it `SelectOption`, `dict`, `iterable` or `str`
- All parameters are now keyword only, excpet for `options` which remains positional or keyword
- `Select` was renamed to `StringSelectMenu`
- New select menus were implemented to support API changes
  - https://discord.com/developers/docs/interactions/message-components#select-menus
  - `UserSelectMenu`
  - `RoleSelectMenu`
  - `MentionableSelectMenu`
  - `ChannelSelectMenu`
  - `ChannelSelectMenu`

### Before
```python
from naff import Select, SelectOption
await channel.send(
        "Old SelectUX",
        components=Select(
            options=[
                SelectOption("test1", "test1"),
                SelectOption("test2", "test2"),
                SelectOption("test3", "test3"),
            ],
            placeholder="test",
        ),
    )
```

### After
```python
from naff import StringSelectMenu

await channel.send(
        "New SelectMenu Menu UX test", components=StringSelectMenu(["test1", "test2", "test3"], placeholder="test")
    )
```

## Listeners
Listeners have received a series of ease-of-use updates for both extension and bot developers alike.

- All internal listeners now have a `is_default_listener` attribute to make it easier to differentiate between the library's listeners and user defined listeners.
- `override_default_listeners` allows you to completely override the library's listeners with your own.
  - Note it might be worth looking into processors if you're doing this; as they allow acting on the raw-payloads before they're processed by the library.
- All event objects now have a shortcut to listen to them via `BaseEvent.listen(coro, Client)`
- Listeners can now be delayed until the client is ready with a `delay_until_ready` argument.

## Events
- All event objects now have a shortcut to listen to them via `BaseEvent.listen(coro, Client)`
- New Events!
  - `ComponentCompletion` - Dispatched after the library ran any component callback.
  - `AutocompleteCompletion` - Dispatched after the library ran any autocomplete callback.
  - `ModalCompletion` - Dispatched after the library ran any modal callback.
  - `Error` - Dispatched whenever the libray encounters an unhandled exception.
    - Previously this was done by overriding the `on_error` method on the client, or in extensions
  - `CommandError` - Dispatched whenever a command encounters an unhandled exception.
  - `ComponentError` - Dispatched whenever a component encounters an unhandled exception.
  - `AutocompleteError` - Dispatched whenever an autocomplete encounters an unhandled exception.
  - `ModalError` - Dispatched whenever a modal encounters an unhandled exception.
  - `NewThreadCreate` - Dispatched whenever a thread is newly created
  - `GuildAvailable` - Dispatched whenever a guild becomes available
    - note this requires the guild cache to be enabled
  - `ApplicationCommandPermissionsUpdate` - Dispatched whenever a guild's application command permissions are updated
  - `VoiceUserDeafen` - Dispatched whenever a user's deafen status changes
  - `VoiceUserJoin` - Dispatched whenever a user joins a voice channel
  - `VoiceUserLeave` - Dispatched whenever a user leaves a voice channel
  - `VoiceUserMove` - Dispatched whenever a user moves to a different voice channel
  - `VoiceUserMute` - Dispatched whenever a user's mute status changes
- Event Renamed
  - `Button` has been renamed to `ButtonPressed` to avoid naming conflicts
- All events with a `context` attribute have had it renamed to `ctx` for consistency

## Client Changes
- dm commands can now be disabled completely via the `disable_dm_commands` kwarg
- `Client.interaction_tree` offers a command tree of all application commands registered to the client
- The `Client` now sanity checks the cache configuration
- The `Client` will no longer warn you if a cache timeout occurs during startup
  - These are caused by T&S shadow-deleting guilds, and are not a concern
- `async_startup_tasks` are now performed as soon as the client successfully connects to the REST API
  - Note this is before the gateway connection is established, use a `on_ready` listener if you need to wait for the gateway connection
- Application Command syncing is now more error tolerant

## Extensions
- Extensions no longer require a `setup` entrypoint function.
  - For complex setups, I would still advise using an entrypoint function

## Caching
- A `NullCache` object is now used to represent a disabled cache, to use it use `create_cache(0, 0, 0)` in a client kwarg as before
  - This is a very niche-use-case and most people won't need to use it
- The `Client` will log a warning if `NullCache` is used for sanity checking
- The serializer now respects `no_export` metadata when using `as_dict`

## Forums
- Forums now utilise the new API spec instead of the private-beta API
- A new `NewThreadCreate` event is now dispatched for brand new threads
- Add various helper methods to `Forum` objects
- `create_post` now handles `str`, `int` `Tag` objects for available tags

## Emoji
- `PartialEmoji.from_str` can now return None if no emoji is found
